# HOW-TO-SEARCH-AND-MATCH-JOBS
Solutions to improve the job search and matching process            The process of searching and matching jobs is a key step in acquiring a suitable job. The applicant needs to consider the job in question and match with his or her profile. One’s profile entails the set of experience and skills one has acquired in his or her career. Jobs vary in terms of type and category. Focus is on the job classification. This is linked to the type of career one is pursuing such as administrative, accounting, managerial, medical or engineering. Thus an applicant searching for a job must consider the career in which the advert falls into. Classification will have to do with where the job falls into, in a nutshell the category of the job. For example, in the HR field an applicant may consider choosing a specific job under the human resources management career area. However there are several categories in human resources management such as recruitment, remuneration, IT, research, legal and training and development. Thus when matching ones profile to a job opening, it is important to consider if the category of the job advertised is suitable to the applicant in terms of  the latter’s profile. The duration of the job being applied for is of critical importance. Usually employees state the duration of the job on employment adverts. This may also be done by the recruitment agency. Jobs may be categorized into contractual, part time or full time. Thus the applicant must decide on the length of the job he or she is ready to consider. A job description specifies what the job requires the applicant to do in terms of activities required to complete the job effectively. For example if the job requires multi-tasking, working long hours, job description and using one’s discretion, an applicant lacking these tools and knowledge will be hardly considered. One’s profile needs to contain all or some similar aspects or activities in terms of previous work done so as to be considered for the job. This is explained by the fact that a recruiter or employer will only consider one who’s C.V.  reflects jobs with similar activities to the job applied for. The job specification is also key to effectively match ones profile with a desired job. The specification highlights the skills and experience required for the job. Thus an applicant searching for a medical position with no experience for a medical position with no experience in surgery while as a laboratory technician cannot apply for a surgical job, or the chances of being recruited will be slim. Thus it is important to read through the job specified so as to effectively match one’s profile with the advert in question. Certain jobs have special requirements in order for them to be effectively completed. These includes aspects such as entry requirements unlike a similar job (testings’ for example a psychometric test, HIV/AIDS testing) or the use of key languages. Before applying for such jobs the applicant will need to ascertain if he or she can conduct such requirements in order to be taken. Availability is a key issue when matching ones profile to a job application. Usually recruiters do not state when the employee is required. Others do mention deadlines for applications. As an applicant one has to determine if the job deadline is convenient for satisfactory time to apply. More so, the start date must be looked upon. Questions to ask oneself includes for example; will I be able to resign from a previous job in order to resume the present one if considered?( especially if one had signed an employment contract for a certain duration) will other needs such as relocation be met before the set date? Will my employers have approved my resignation by the set time? The location of the job requires emphasis. If an applicant leaves in the USA for example and is searching out for a job in Vietnam, he or she needs to consider if the  job is open to non-Vietnamese. This is stated on the job description. If open then the applicant can applicant must search out for similar options in the area or in other countries. The applicant must also search out for jobs in locations that are accessible. Other things to consider are factors such as living standards in the area, political stability, religion, languages and culture. Certain applications have key requirements which need to be followed in order to be considered. Certain jobs require applicants to be registered on the job website then complete a profile to apply. Others require the applicant to use an email for application with a CV , cover letter and more. The applicant needs to decipher if he or she can meet such requirements. The salary specification is also of key importance. An employee who was earning USD2, 500 and now applying for a job may be ten times bigger USD 25,000 has a lesser chance of getting the job in terms of competition faced from other applicants who might be earning more e.g. USD 18,500.Applicants must search out for jobs with salaries which are reasonable in terms of previous remunerations and job qualities. Employers usually categories staff as beginner, professionals and experts. Thus an applicant who is a beginner say with a one year to three years’ experience may hardly be considered for a job position set out for applicants with a professional profile (seven to fourteen years).This applicants must search out for jobs which match their length or duration of work or level of professionalism. Finally the cost of getting the job is also of great importance. Usually certain recruiters set prices for getting registered on their website. Thus a non-registered applicant will have a lesser chance of being considered for recruitment than an application who has paid a registration fee. The question of affordability for acquiring the job comes into the picture. Thus in a nutshell, the process of searching and matching jobs is critical to the type of job one obtains and the general recruitment process. When searching out for a job, an applicant must consider their level of professionalism, kind  and category of the job, duration of the job, job description, job specification, special requirements, availability for the job, location of the job, application requirements, experience, salary and cost of obtaining the job.
